# OWASP Mobile Top 10: M2 - Insecure Data Storage
## Shared Preference

Shared Preferences is an Android API used to store small collections of primitive data (Booleans, floats, integers, longs, strings) in key-value pairs.

**The vulnerability exists when developers store sensitive information (PII, Passwords, API Tokens, Session IDs) in Shared Preferences without implementing encryption. If an attacker gains physical access to an unlocked device, uses a malicious app with root privileges, or dumps the filesystem, they can read this data in plain text.**

1. **Working:** The Android OS creates an ==XML== file in the app's private directory to store this data.
2. **Path:** These files are typically located at:
```
    /data/data/<package_name>/shared_prefs/<filename>.xml
```

**Vulnerability:** Developers often make the mistake of storing sensitive information (like passwords, API keys, or session tokens) in Shared Preferences in plain text (unencrypted). If an attacker gains access to the device (physically or via malware with root access), they can easily read these secrets.


## Beetle Bug APK Lab
##### Step 1: Input Data
Enter credentials:

    User: admin
    Pass: SuperSecret123


##### Step 2: Access Device Shell
Connect to the device using ADB from your host machine.

```Bash
adb shell
```

##### Step 3: Escalate Privileges
Switch to the root user to access the protected /data/ directory.

```BASH
su
# Prompt should change from $ to #
```

##### Step 4: Locate Application Package
Find the specific package name for Beetle Bug.

```BASH
pm list packages | grep beetle
# Output typically: com.beetlebug
```

##### Step 5: Navigate to Shared Prefs
Move to the application's data directory.

```BASH
cd /data/data/com.beetlebug/shared_prefs
ls -la
```
Look for .xml files (e.g., UserPrefs.xml or sp_info.xml).

##### Step 6: Extract Data
Read the content of the XML file.

```BASH
cat sp_info.xml
```

##### Result (Evidence)
```XML
<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8' standalone='yes' ?>
<map>
    <string name="User">admin</string>
    <string name="Password">SuperSecret123</string>
</map>
```

## Prevention/Mitigation

    Avoid Storing Sensitive Data: Do not store passwords or PINs locally if possible. Use session tokens instead.
    Use EncryptedSharedPreferences: Instead of the standard SharedPreferences, use the Android Jetpack Security library.
        It encrypts keys (using deterministic encryption).
        It encrypts values (using AES-256 GCM).
